README.md, before:

### Getting started

Clone the repo:

```
>> mkdir bb (you can call your project's folder whatever you want; bb stands for ballboy)
>> cd bb
>> git clone git@github.com:fede-rodes/ballboy_client.git client (this will create a 'client' folder inside 'bb')
>> cd client
>> yarn run install (install dependencies, please use yarn not npm!)
```

### Install Expo CLI

```
>> npm install -g expo-cli
```

[https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/introduction/installation/](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/introduction/installation/)

### Set expo environment variables

At the root of the project you'll find a `app.json.sample` file. Re-name it to `app.json`. That's where expo keeps all the environment variables. Set your env vars under `extra` making sure
`expo.extra.isStorybook` is set to `false` (more on this later).

Example `app.json` file:
```
{
  "expo": {
    "name": "brand",
    "slug": "brand",
    "privacy": "public",
    "sdkVersion": "35.0.0",
    "platforms": [
      "ios",
      "android",
      "web"
    ],
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "orientation": "portrait",
    "icon": "./assets/icon.png",
    "splash": {
      "image": "./assets/splash.png",
      "resizeMode": "contain",
      "backgroundColor": "#ffffff"
    },
    "updates": {
      "fallbackToCacheTimeout": 0
    },
    "assetBundlePatterns": [
      "**/*"
    ],
    "entryPoint": "./index.ts",
    "ios": {
      "supportsTablet": true,
      "infoPlist": {
        "LSApplicationQueriesSchemes": [
          "comgooglemaps",
          "citymapper",
          "uber",
          "lyft",
          "waze"
        ]
      }
    },
    "extra": {
      "graphqlServer": "http://192.168.56.1:3001/graphql",
      "isStorybook": false,
      "chatkitAuthEndpoint": "http://192.168.56.1:3001/chatkit-auth",
      "chatkitReadOnlyUser": "xxx",
      "chatkitInstanceLocator": "xxx",
      "googleMapsAndroidApiKey": "xxx",
      "googleMapsIosApiKey": "xxx",
      "cloudinaryCloudname": "xxx",
      "cloudinaryApiKey": "xxx",
      "cloudinaryApiSecret": "xxx",
      "cloudinaryUploadPreset": "xxx",
      "brand": "BRAND",
      "feedbackUrl": "https://goo.gl/forms/123",
      "privacyUrl": "https://brand.com/privacy",
      "termsUrl": "https://brand.com/terms",
      "cities": [
        {
          "id": "amsterdam",
          "city": "Amsterdam",
          "country": "Netherlands",
          "formattedAddress": "Amsterdam, Netherlands",
          "coordinates": [52.354733, 4.8284116]
        },
        {
          "id": "enschede",
          "city": "Enschede",
          "country": "Netherlands",
          "formattedAddress": "Enschede, Netherlands",
          "coordinates": [52.220615, 6.895782]
        },
        {
          "id": "rotterdam",
          "city": "Rotterdam",
          "country": "Netherlands",
          "formattedAddress": "Rotterdam, Netherlands",
          "coordinates": [51.92806, 4.420195]
        },
        {
          "id": "barcelona",
          "city": "Barcelona",
          "country": "Spain",
          "formattedAddress": "Barcelona, Spain",
          "coordinates": [41.394897, 2.0785563]
        },
        {
          "id":"buenosAires",
          "city":"Buenos Aires",
          "country":"Argentina",
          "formattedAddress": "Buenos Aires, Argentina",
          "coordinates": [-34.61566, -58.50351]
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Find out more about expo env vars:
- [https://expo.canny.io/feature-requests/p/dotenv-support](https://expo.canny.io/feature-requests/p/dotenv-support)
- [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52546254/react-native-with-expo-how-to-use-a-env-local-config-file](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52546254/react-native-with-expo-how-to-use-a-env-local-config-file)
- [https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/workflow/configuration/](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/workflow/configuration/)
- [https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/sdk/constants/](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/sdk/constants/)

### Run expo (React Native)

- First, visit [https://vast-beach-90080.herokuapp.com/graphql](https://vast-beach-90080.herokuapp.com/graphql) in order to 'wake up' the server. I don't want to pay a single pennie for now, so the server is hosted on a Heroku-free-tire, which goes to sleep when inactive. Booting the server up takes a few minutes.
- Start the emulator (genymotion is the emulator I use on Linux)
- Open a new terminal and start expo:

```
>> cd /bb/client
>> expo start
```
- Once expo is open, set `Local` as the type of `CONNECTION` on the expo dashboard and finally hit the `Run on Android (iOS) emulator` button. After a little while (could take several minutes) the app should start on the emulator.

### Run expo (Web)

- First, visit [https://vast-beach-90080.herokuapp.com/graphql](https://vast-beach-90080.herokuapp.com/graphql) in order to 'wake up' the server. I don't want to pay a single pennie for now, so the server is hosted on a Heroku-free-tire, which goes to sleep when inactive. Booting the server up takes a few minutes.

- Open a new terminal and start expo with the --web flag:

```
>> cd /bb/client
>> expo start --web
```
- This should open a new window in your default browser with the web version of the app.


### Storybook

[https://storybook.js.org/](https://storybook.js.org/)

To run storybook:
- Stop `expo` in case it's running, open the emulator in case it's closed and close the app from the emulator in case it's running;
- Go to `app.json` and set `expo.extra.isStorybook` to `true`. This tells expo to run storybook instead of the real app.
- Load/update stories: `yarn run storybook`. Wait until `/storybook/storyloader.ts` gets created/updated. Then stop storybook `ctrl + C` on Linux.
- Run expo as usual: `expo start`. Storybook should open automatically on the emulator.


https://pusher.com/tutorials/storybook-react-native


### Icons

Thanks to [https://thenounproject.com](https://thenounproject.com)


### TS tests config

https://medium.com/@ch1ll0ut1/how-to-setup-react-native-with-typescript-the-new-way-6c1f1cce6ed3


### RN web navigation

- https://github.com/expo/web-examples/blob/29d2eeed96d936d7feb1f29e35bee684b6519dfb/docs/FEATURES.md
- https://blog.bitsrc.io/how-to-react-native-web-app-a-happy-struggle-aea7906f4903
- https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/master/apps
- https://reactnavigation.org/docs/en/auth-flow.html (see also v5)
- https://github.com/react-native-elements/react-native-elements-app/blob/master/src/views/profile/screen1.js
- https://react-native-elements.github.io/react-native-elements-app/
- https://blog.bitsrc.io/how-to-react-native-web-app-a-happy-struggle-aea7906f4903
- https://github.com/inspmoore/rnw_boilerplate?source=post_page-----aea7906f4903----------------------
- https://pickering.org/using-react-native-react-native-web-and-react-navigation-in-a-single-project-cfd4bcca16d0

Commit message:

adding deploy section to readme

README.md, after:

### Getting started

Clone the repo:

```
>> mkdir bb (you can call your project's folder whatever you want; bb stands for ballboy)
>> cd bb
>> git clone git@github.com:fede-rodes/ballboy_client.git client (this will create a 'client' folder inside 'bb')
>> cd client
>> yarn run install (install dependencies, please use yarn not npm!)
```

### Install Expo CLI

```
>> npm install -g expo-cli
```

[https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/introduction/installation/](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/introduction/installation/)

### Set expo environment variables

At the root of the project you'll find a `app.json.sample` file. Re-name it to `app.json`. That's where expo keeps all the environment variables. Set your env vars under `extra` making sure
`expo.extra.isStorybook` is set to `false` (more on this later).

Example `app.json` file:
```
{
  "expo": {
    "name": "brand",
    "slug": "brand",
    "privacy": "public",
    "sdkVersion": "35.0.0",
    "platforms": [
      "ios",
      "android",
      "web"
    ],
    "version": "1.0.0",
    "orientation": "portrait",
    "icon": "./assets/icon.png",
    "splash": {
      "image": "./assets/splash.png",
      "resizeMode": "contain",
      "backgroundColor": "#ffffff"
    },
    "updates": {
      "fallbackToCacheTimeout": 0
    },
    "assetBundlePatterns": [
      "**/*"
    ],
    "entryPoint": "./index.ts",
    "ios": {
      "supportsTablet": true,
      "infoPlist": {
        "LSApplicationQueriesSchemes": [
          "comgooglemaps",
          "citymapper",
          "uber",
          "lyft",
          "waze"
        ]
      }
    },
    "extra": {
      "graphqlServer": "http://192.168.56.1:3001/graphql",
      "isStorybook": false,
      "chatkitAuthEndpoint": "http://192.168.56.1:3001/chatkit-auth",
      "chatkitReadOnlyUser": "xxx",
      "chatkitInstanceLocator": "xxx",
      "googleMapsAndroidApiKey": "xxx",
      "googleMapsIosApiKey": "xxx",
      "cloudinaryCloudname": "xxx",
      "cloudinaryApiKey": "xxx",
      "cloudinaryApiSecret": "xxx",
      "cloudinaryUploadPreset": "xxx",
      "brand": "BRAND",
      "feedbackUrl": "https://goo.gl/forms/123",
      "privacyUrl": "https://brand.com/privacy",
      "termsUrl": "https://brand.com/terms",
      "cities": [
        {
          "id": "amsterdam",
          "city": "Amsterdam",
          "country": "Netherlands",
          "formattedAddress": "Amsterdam, Netherlands",
          "coordinates": [52.354733, 4.8284116]
        },
        {
          "id": "enschede",
          "city": "Enschede",
          "country": "Netherlands",
          "formattedAddress": "Enschede, Netherlands",
          "coordinates": [52.220615, 6.895782]
        },
        {
          "id": "rotterdam",
          "city": "Rotterdam",
          "country": "Netherlands",
          "formattedAddress": "Rotterdam, Netherlands",
          "coordinates": [51.92806, 4.420195]
        },
        {
          "id": "barcelona",
          "city": "Barcelona",
          "country": "Spain",
          "formattedAddress": "Barcelona, Spain",
          "coordinates": [41.394897, 2.0785563]
        },
        {
          "id":"buenosAires",
          "city":"Buenos Aires",
          "country":"Argentina",
          "formattedAddress": "Buenos Aires, Argentina",
          "coordinates": [-34.61566, -58.50351]
        }
      ]
    }
  }
}
```

Find out more about expo env vars:
- [https://expo.canny.io/feature-requests/p/dotenv-support](https://expo.canny.io/feature-requests/p/dotenv-support)
- [https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52546254/react-native-with-expo-how-to-use-a-env-local-config-file](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/52546254/react-native-with-expo-how-to-use-a-env-local-config-file)
- [https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/workflow/configuration/](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/workflow/configuration/)
- [https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/sdk/constants/](https://docs.expo.io/versions/latest/sdk/constants/)

### Run expo (React Native)

- First, visit [https://vast-beach-90080.herokuapp.com/graphql](https://vast-beach-90080.herokuapp.com/graphql) in order to 'wake up' the server. I don't want to pay a single pennie for now, so the server is hosted on a Heroku-free-tire, which goes to sleep when inactive. Booting the server up takes a few minutes.
- Start the emulator (genymotion is the emulator I use on Linux)
- Open a new terminal and start expo:

```
>> cd /bb/client
>> expo start
```
- Once expo is open, set `Local` as the type of `CONNECTION` on the expo dashboard and finally hit the `Run on Android (iOS) emulator` button. After a little while (could take several minutes) the app should start on the emulator.

### Run expo (Web)

- First, visit [https://vast-beach-90080.herokuapp.com/graphql](https://vast-beach-90080.herokuapp.com/graphql) in order to 'wake up' the server. I don't want to pay a single pennie for now, so the server is hosted on a Heroku-free-tire, which goes to sleep when inactive. Booting the server up takes a few minutes.

- Open a new terminal and start expo with the --web flag:

```
>> cd /bb/client
>> expo start --web
```
- This should open a new window in your default browser with the web version of the app.

### Deploy

[https://github.com/expo/web-examples/blob/master/docs/DEPLOYMENT.md](https://github.com/expo/web-examples/blob/master/docs/DEPLOYMENT.md)

#### Now
Now has a single-command zero-config deployment flow. You can use now to deploy your app for free! 100

For more information on unlimited hosting, check out the blog post.

Install the now CLI with `npm install -g now`.

Build your Expo web app with `expo build:web`.

To deploy:
```
Run cd web-build
Run now --name your-project-name
You should see a now.sh URL in your output like: > Ready! https://expo-web-is-cool-nocabnave.now.sh (copied!)
Paste that URL into your browser when the build is complete, and you will see your deployed app!
```
To deploy to production in the future, run `now --prod`

### Storybook

[https://storybook.js.org/](https://storybook.js.org/)

To run storybook:
- Stop `expo` in case it's running, open the emulator in case it's closed and close the app from the emulator in case it's running;
- Go to `app.json` and set `expo.extra.isStorybook` to `true`. This tells expo to run storybook instead of the real app.
- Load/update stories: `yarn run storybook`. Wait until `/storybook/storyloader.ts` gets created/updated. Then stop storybook `ctrl + C` on Linux.
- Run expo as usual: `expo start`. Storybook should open automatically on the emulator.


https://pusher.com/tutorials/storybook-react-native


### Icons

Thanks to [https://thenounproject.com](https://thenounproject.com)


### TS tests config

https://medium.com/@ch1ll0ut1/how-to-setup-react-native-with-typescript-the-new-way-6c1f1cce6ed3


### RN web navigation

- https://github.com/expo/web-examples/blob/29d2eeed96d936d7feb1f29e35bee684b6519dfb/docs/FEATURES.md
- https://blog.bitsrc.io/how-to-react-native-web-app-a-happy-struggle-aea7906f4903
- https://github.com/expo/expo/tree/master/apps
- https://reactnavigation.org/docs/en/auth-flow.html (see also v5)
- https://github.com/react-native-elements/react-native-elements-app/blob/master/src/views/profile/screen1.js
- https://react-native-elements.github.io/react-native-elements-app/
- https://blog.bitsrc.io/how-to-react-native-web-app-a-happy-struggle-aea7906f4903
- https://github.com/inspmoore/rnw_boilerplate?source=post_page-----aea7906f4903----------------------
- https://pickering.org/using-react-native-react-native-web-and-react-navigation-in-a-single-project-cfd4bcca16d0
